# ME320_Dynamics_of_Machines_Project
In this project, a MatLab code was developed to solve and plot four and three bar mechanisms.

In this report, an investigation is carried out by the 4-member team to provide a concise analysis on the 4-bar mechanism and the Planer 3R manipulator. The investigation involves the understanding and writing of a MATLAB code based on the “skeleton” code given. The main objective includes completing the “skeleton” code to develop an adaptable code that will solve and plot position of a 4-bar mechanism and 3R manipulator. Also, solve and plot velocity and acceleration of a 4-bar mechanism. 
The project consisted of two parts. The first part involves the full analysis of the 4-bar mechanism which includes plotting position, velocity and acceleration. The second part involves the analysis of the planer 3R manipulator, which includes plotting position. Each parts’ problems were analytically resolved by the completed “skeleton” code. The equations for position, velocity, and acceleration were derived using the vector loop method. 
The written code in this project was broken into 4-parts: Grashof Sanity, Mechanism, Path Plan and Links. Grashof Sanity class determines the type of 4-bar mechanism based on lengths passed. The Link class updates the start and end points of the links, stores that data and creates an overlay around the links. The Mechanism class solves for the unknowns of each mechanism type. The Path Plan class constructs the mechanisms’ links depending on the type of mechanism.
